[ao] fixing tutorials (#2140)
pytorch/tutorials: prototype_source/fx_graph_mode_ptq_static.rst

(prototype) FX Graph Mode Post Training Static Quantization
===========================================================
**Author**: `Jerry Zhang <https://github.com/jerryzh168>`_ **Edited by**: `Charles Hernandez <https://github.com/HDCharles>`_

This tutorial introduces the steps to do post training static quantization in graph mode based on
`torch.fx <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/torch/fx/__init__.py>`_.
The advantage of FX graph mode quantization is that we can perform quantization fully automatically on the model

> although there might some effort required to make the model compatible with FX Graph Mode Quantizatiion (symbolically traceable with ``torch.fx``),

Author: good catch

      model.eval()
      with torch.no_grad():
          for image, target in data_loader:
              model(image)
  example_inputs = (next(iter(data_loader))[0]) # get an example input
  prepared_model = prepare_fx(float_model, qconfig_mapping, example_inputs)  # fuse modules and insert observers
  calibrate(prepared_model, data_loader_test)  # run calibration on sample data
  quantized_model = convert_fx(prepared_model)  # convert the calibrated model to a quantized model

1. Motivation of FX Graph Mode Quantization
-------------------------------------------

Currently PyTorch only has eager mode quantization: `Static Quantization with Eager Mode in PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/advanced/static_quantization_tutorial.html>`_.

We can see there are multiple manual steps involved in the process, including:

- Explicitly quantize and dequantize activations, this is time consuming when floating point and quantized operations are mixed in a model.
- Explicitly fuse modules, this requires manually identifying the sequence of convolutions, batch norms and relus and other fusion patterns.
- Special handling is needed for pytorch tensor operations (like add, concat etc.)

> - Functionals did not have first class support (functional.conv2d and functional.linear would not get quantized)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Functionals did not have first class support—``functional.conv2d`` and ``functional.linear`` would not get quantized)
```

> Most of these required modifications comes from the underlying limitations of eager mode quantization. Eager mode works in module level since it can not inspect the code that is actually run (in the forward function), quantization is achieved by module swapping, and we don’t know how the modules are used in forward function in eager mode, so it requires users to insert QuantStub and DeQuantStub manually to mark the points they want to quantize or dequantize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of these required modifications come from the underlying limitations of eager mode quantization. Eager mode works in module level since it can not inspect the code that is actually run (in the forward function), quantization is achieved by module swapping, and we don’t know how the modules are used in forward function in eager mode, so it requires users to insert QuantStub and DeQuantStub manually to mark the points they want to quantize or dequantize.
```

> In graph mode, we can inspect the actual code that’s been executed in forward function (e.g. aten function calls) and quantization is achieved by module and graph manipulations. Since graph mode has full visibility of the code that is run, our tool is able to automatically figure out things like which modules to fuse and where to insert observer calls, quantize/dequantize functions etc., we are able to automate the whole quantization process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In graph mode, we can inspect the actual code that’s been executed in forward function (for example, aten function calls) and quantization is achieved by module and graph manipulations. Since graph mode has full visibility of the code that is run, our tool is able to automatically figure out things like which modules to fuse and where to insert observer calls, quantize/dequantize functions, and so on, we are able to automate the whole quantization process.
```

> Advantages of FX Graph Mode Quantization are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advantages of FX Graph Mode Quantization include:
```

- Simple quantization flow, minimal manual steps

> - Unlocks the possibility of doing higher level optimizations like automatic precision selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The possibility of performing higher level optimizations like automatic precision selection
```

.. code:: python

  qconfig_mapping = QConfigMapping.set_global(default_qconfig)

We use the same qconfig used in eager mode quantization, ``qconfig`` is just a named tuple
of the observers for activation and weight. ``QConfigMapping`` contains mapping information from ops to qconfigs:

.. code:: python

  qconfig_mapping = (QConfigMapping()
      .set_global(qconfig?)  # qconfig? means either a valid qconfig or None
      .set_object_type(torch.nn.Conv2d, qconfig?) # can be a callable...
      .set_object_type("torch.nn.functional.add", qconfig?) # ...or a string of the class name
      .set_module_name_regex("foo.*bar.*conv[0-9]+", qconfig?) # matched in order, first match takes precedence
      .set_module_name("foo.bar", qconfig?)
      .set_module_name_object_type_order()
  )
      # priority (in increasing order): global, object_type, module_name_regex, module_name
      # qconfig == None means fusion and quantization should be skipped for anything
      # matching the rule (unless a higher priority match is found)

Utility functions related to ``qconfig`` can be found in the `qconfig <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/torch/ao/quantization/qconfig.py>`_ file

> while those for ``QConfigMapping`` can be found in the `qconfig_mapping <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/torch/ao/quantization/fx/qconfig_mapping.py>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while those for ``QConfigMapping`` can be found in the `qconfig_mapping <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/torch/ao/quantization/fx/qconfig_mapping.py>`__
```

.. code:: python

    qconfig = get_default_qconfig("fbgemm")
    qconfig_mapping = QConfigMapping().set_global(qconfig)

5. Prepare the Model for Post Training Static Quantization
----------------------------------------------------------

.. code:: python

    prepared_model = prepare_fx(model_to_quantize, qconfig_mapping, example_inputs)

> prepare_fx folds BatchNorm modules into previous Conv2d modules, and insert observers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``prepare_fx`` folds BatchNorm modules into previous Conv2d modules, and insert observers
```

in appropriate places in the model.

.. code:: python

    prepared_model = prepare_fx(model_to_quantize, qconfig_mapping, example_inputs)
    print(prepared_model.graph)

6. Calibration
--------------
Calibration function is run after the observers are inserted in the model.
The purpose for calibration is to run through some sample examples that is representative of the workload
(for example a sample of the training data set) so that the observers in the model are able to observe

> the statistics of the Tensors and we can later use this information to calculate quantization parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the statistics of the Tensors, and we can later use this information to calculate quantization parameters.
```

    fx_graph_mode_model_file_path = saved_model_dir + "resnet18_fx_graph_mode_quantized.pth"

    # this does not run due to some erros loading convrelu module:
    # ModuleAttributeError: 'ConvReLU2d' object has no attribute '_modules'
    # save the whole model directly
    # torch.save(quantized_model, fx_graph_mode_model_file_path)
    # loaded_quantized_model = torch.load(fx_graph_mode_model_file_path)

    # save with state_dict
    # torch.save(quantized_model.state_dict(), fx_graph_mode_model_file_path)
    # import copy
    # model_to_quantize = copy.deepcopy(float_model)
    # prepared_model = prepare_fx(model_to_quantize, {"": qconfig})
    # loaded_quantized_model = convert_fx(prepared_model)
    # loaded_quantized_model.load_state_dict(torch.load(fx_graph_mode_model_file_path))

    # save with script
    torch.jit.save(torch.jit.script(quantized_model), fx_graph_mode_model_file_path)
    loaded_quantized_model = torch.jit.load(fx_graph_mode_model_file_path)

    top1, top5 = evaluate(loaded_quantized_model, criterion, data_loader_test)
    print("[after serialization/deserialization] Evaluation accuracy on test dataset: %2.2f, %2.2f"%(top1.avg, top5.avg))

> If you want to get better accuracy or performance,  try changing the `qconfig_mapping`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to get better accuracy or performance, try changing the ``qconfig_mapping``.
```

We plan to add support for graph mode in the Numerical Suite so that you can

> easily determine the sensitivity towards quantization of different modules in a model: `PyTorch Numeric Suite Tutorial <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/prototype/numeric_suite_tutorial.html>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
easily determine the sensitivity towards quantization of different modules in a model. For more information, see `PyTorch Numeric Suite Tutorial <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/prototype/numeric_suite_tutorial.html>`_
```

9. Debugging Quantized Model
----------------------------
We can also print the weight for quantized an un-quantized conv to see the difference,

> we'll first call fuse explicitly to fuse the conv and bn in the model:

Reviewer: should it be: "to fuse the convolution and batch norm layers in the model"

Note that ``fuse_fx`` only works in eval mode.

.. code:: python

    fused = fuse_fx(float_model)

    conv1_weight_after_fuse = fused.conv1[0].weight[0]
    conv1_weight_after_quant = quantized_model.conv1.weight().dequantize()[0]

    print(torch.max(abs(conv1_weight_after_fuse - conv1_weight_after_quant)))

10. Comparison with Baseline Float Model and Eager Mode Quantization
--------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code:: python

    scripted_float_model_file = "resnet18_scripted.pth"

    print("Size of baseline model")
    print_size_of_model(float_model)

    top1, top5 = evaluate(float_model, criterion, data_loader_test)
    print("Baseline Float Model Evaluation accuracy: %2.2f, %2.2f"%(top1.avg, top5.avg))
    torch.jit.save(torch.jit.script(float_model), saved_model_dir + scripted_float_model_file)

> In this section we compare the model quantized with FX graph mode quantization with the model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we compare the model quantized with FX graph mode quantization with the model
```

    print("FX graph mode quantized model Evaluation accuracy on test dataset: %2.2f, %2.2f"%(top1.avg, top5.avg))

    from torchvision.models.quantization.resnet import resnet18
    eager_quantized_model = resnet18(pretrained=True, quantize=True).eval()
    print("Size of eager mode quantized model")
    eager_quantized_model = torch.jit.script(eager_quantized_model)
    print_size_of_model(eager_quantized_model)
    top1, top5 = evaluate(eager_quantized_model, criterion, data_loader_test)
    print("eager mode quantized model Evaluation accuracy on test dataset: %2.2f, %2.2f"%(top1.avg, top5.avg))
    eager_mode_model_file = "resnet18_eager_mode_quantized.pth"
    torch.jit.save(eager_quantized_model, saved_model_dir + eager_mode_model_file)

We can see that the model size and accuracy of FX graph mode and eager mode quantized model are pretty similar.

Running the model in AIBench (with single threading) gives the following result:

.. code::

  Scripted Float Model:
  Self CPU time total: 192.48ms

  Scripted Eager Mode Quantized Model:
  Self CPU time total: 50.76ms

  Scripted FX Graph Mode Quantized Model:
  Self CPU time total: 50.63ms

> As we can see for resnet18 both FX graph mode and eager mode quantized model get similar speed up over the floating point model,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see for resnet18 both FX graph mode and eager mode quantized model get similar speedup over the floating point model,
```
